Example speech recognition mobile app using Azure custom op on Android (#296)
microsoft/onnxruntime-inference-examples: mobile/examples/whisper/azure/android/readme.md

# Android Speech Recognition Example with Azure Custom Op

This example shows how to use ORT to do speech recognition using the [Whisper](https://github.com/openai/whisper) model and calls the OpenAI Whisper endpoint using the Azure custom op. You MUST update the code to specify a valid OpenAI auth token. See [here](#prepare-an-openai-auth-token) for details.

The application lets the user make an audio recording, then recognizes the speech from that recording and displays a transcript.

Example App Screenshot - A Successful result returned from OpenAI endpoint:

<img width=25% src="images/Img_successful_endpoint_res.png" alt="App Screenshot" />

## Set up

### Prerequisites

See the general prerequisites [here](../../../../README.md#General-Prerequisites).

> Optionally, you will need to be able to record audio, either on an emulator or a device. In the example, a pre-recorded audio is provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A pre-recorded audio file is provided in the app to simplify usage, and you can also record audio if you choose. 
```

# Android Speech Recognition Example with Azure Custom Op

This example shows how to use ORT to do speech recognition using the [Whisper](https://github.com/openai/whisper) model and calls the OpenAI Whisper endpoint using the Azure custom op. You MUST update the code to specify a valid OpenAI auth token. See [here](#prepare-an-openai-auth-token) for details.

The application lets the user make an audio recording, then recognizes the speech from that recording and displays a transcript.

Example App Screenshot - A Successful result returned from OpenAI endpoint:

<img width=25% src="images/Img_successful_endpoint_res.png" alt="App Screenshot" />

## Set up

### Prerequisites

See the general prerequisites [here](../../../../README.md#General-Prerequisites).

> Additionally, you will need to be able to record audio, either on an emulator or a device.

Reviewer: nit: we include pre-recorded audio don't we and recording your own audio is optional?

Author: yea, updated in both whisper samples.

This example was developed with Android Studio Giraffe | 2022.3.1 Patch 1.
It is recommended to use that version or a newer one.

### Generate the model

This is optional. Currently a usable model file is checked in.

> Model was created with [create_openai_whisper_transcriptions.py](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime-extensions/blob/main/test/data/azure/create_openai_whisper_transcriptions.py) script. If any changes are required they should be simple adjust. (e.g. change default audio format from wav to mp3).

Reviewer 2: > If any changes are required they should be simple adjust. (e.g. change default audio format from wav to mp3).

were any changes required to generate the model? if so, it may be good to list them.

Author: for the sake of model used in this sample app, no we are just using the model as created from the script.

Reviewer: Can we instead say the model generated by the script is checked in as that's clearer than 'a usable model'

> Model was created with [create_openai_whisper_transcriptions.py](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime-extensions/blob/main/test/data/azure/create_openai_whisper_transcriptions.py) script. If any changes are required they should be simple adjust. (e.g. change default audio format from wav to mp3).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Model was created with [create_openai_whisper_transcriptions.py](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime-extensions/blob/main/test/data/azure/create_openai_whisper_transcriptions.py) script. If any changes are required they should only be simple adjustments (e.g. change default audio format from wav to mp3).
```

Copy the model to `app/src/main/res/raw/openai_whisper_transcriptions.onnx`.

### Prepare an OpenAI Auth Token

> It's required for the app to provide an OpenAI auth token. Please update the authToken variable in `SpeechRecognizer init` (src/android/java/ai/onnxruntime/example/speechrecognition/SpeechRecognizer.kt) with your token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's required for the app to provide an OpenAI auth token. Please update the authToken variable in `SpeechRecognizer init` (app/src/main/java/ai/onnxruntime/example/whisperAzure/SpeechRecognizer.kt) with your token.
```
